# Statistical-Data-Analysis
The purpose of the model we received is to estimate the profit of an academic institution using several explanatory variables. We used the data table we received which contains 8 explanatory variables, 5 of which are continuous and 3 categorical. At the beginning of the process, we tested each of the variables and performed a test based on **P_Value** in order to see how necessary and suitable that variable is for explaining the profit of the academic institution. At this initial stage, according to the level of significance we performed
In the test, we removed variables according to the catalog of entering or leaving the model. The variables were removed **only according to the test we performed**, without an attempt to support their removal from the way they relate to the institution's profit.
Next, we analyzed the remaining explanatory variables and performed intragroup adjustments for each explanatory variable separately. Dummy and interaction variables were adjusted for those that were necessary. Since we were left after removal with only a single continuous variable, **we tested all possible interactions** on it. After defining the model variables from the selected interactions, we tried F.S, B.E, S.R algorithms and chose that the most suitable measure for us to continue the tests would be **R_adj**. In addition, we used the AIC and BIC measures during this part. We tested the model's assumptions (normality, linearity, and equality of variances) by several tests, among them: Shapiro-Wilk, Chow, KS, Goldfeld-Quandt. Finally, we performed transformations to the explanatory variables in order to fulfill the model's assumptions.

To improve the model, we performed renewed **Pearson tests** for various transformations on the variables that we removed at the beginning of the process to check whether with their help we could find a model whose index value would be better. With the additional use of the algorithms for selecting the model variables, we found the best model that we were able to obtain from the multitude of possibilities that we tried.


***Conclusions*** - Although we chose to remove certain variables at the beginning of the work on this part, we discovered that their contribution to the model together with additional interaction variables could be greater according to the index we chose. Another conclusion is that performing transformations to explanatory variables is the step that was the best improvement for the index we chose.


***Results***- for our final model, the value of R_adj= 0.6443, an improvement of 17% compared to the initial model before the attempt to improve the model. The final model contains 6 explanatory variables, some of which were defined as dummy variables, in addition there are 12 more interaction variables that were created as a result of fitting the model.
